# BHWeatherApp

## ➡️ Requirements

- iOS 11.0+ 
- Xcode 12+
- Swift 5.0+

## ➡️ Pre-Requisites
This project has been developed with Swift 5.0, Xcode 12.3 and CocoaPods 1.8.3. So you must have Xcode installed on your computer and be sure you have at least this version of Cocoapod installed on your computer. To check if pod is available, lauch the following command :
```
pod --version
```
In case cocoapods is not installed or `pod` is not recognized by command line, run this command :
```
[sudo] gem install cocoapods --pre
```

## ➡️ Installation
1. Go to the root of the project on your computer
```
cd ~/YourProjectName
```
2. Check your podfile if the code is correct as below
```ruby
target 'TargetName' do

  use_frameworks!

    pod 'BHWeatherControl', :git => 'https://github.com/GodriXx/BHWeatherControl.git'

end
```
4. Normally, pod dependencies are not ignored by `.gitignore`, as it's recommanded on iOS/Swift project (https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Swift.gitignore). But to be sure all you config files are up to date, launch the folowing command :
```
pod install
```
5. At this step, everything is ready to begin the test or develop phase, open the project on Xcode:
```
open YourProject.xcworkspace
```
6. At last, build the project from Xcode:
```
cmd + B
```
7. In case you face errors or warnings generated by `BHWeatherApp`, or incompatiblity issues after updating to new iOS/Swift version, due to fixed version to pods in `BHWeatherApp` podfile, please check new version of your target pod on official github, change version number to the new one and run command above.
```
pod update
```
8. Sometimes updating or installing pods doesn't take in consideration newest version even if you buff version number in podfile, to resolve this issue please delet `podfile.lock` and run following command :
```
pod deintegrate
pod install
```
9. Add your own OpenWeathMap token in `appID`, located in application's `Info.plist`.

## ➡️ Patterns used in App
### MVVM
* MVVM for Model-View-ViewModel is a pattern in which each view on the screen will be backed by a ViewModel that represents the data for the view, this design pattern is very suitable for Unit tests.

### Decorator : 
Mainly represented with `Extensions` and `Delegation`, `Extension` is mechanism that allows you to add new functionality to existing classes, structures or enumeration types without having to subclass. `Delegation` is a mechanism in which one object acts on behalf of, or in coordination with, another object.
### Singleton : 
The Singleton design pattern ensures that only one instance exists for a given class and that there’s a global access point to that instance, the use of this model is extremely limited and to be avoided due to the lack of freedom of testability.
### Adapter : 
An Adapter allows classes with incompatible interfaces to work together. It wraps itself around an object and exposes a standard interface to interact with that object. Applying Adapter in iOS can be done throught defining protocols that can be implemented later in target classes, exemple DataSources
### Repository :
Is a software design that provides an abstraction of data, so that your application can work with simple abstraction that has an interface. using this pattern can reduce high coupling, and can keep objects persistence ignorant.

## ➡️ First demonstration
You can either test BHWeatherApp on simulator or iPhones, in this case you will need only a valid `OpenWeatherMap` token to be stored in Info.plist's `appID`.

## ➡️ Main Pods

`BHWeatherControl` :  is a simple weather API that make it easy to fetch weather forecast informations for specific locations (longitude/latitude).

## ➡️ Comments
Comments are present all over the app to explain some piece of code, difficulties, to do work or improvement that could come later. Some comments are prefixed with a specific syntax for a specific meanning :

- `// IMPROVEMENT` : Means the code could be more compact, more readable, more syntetic, etc. Contraily to the previous syntax, this kind of comment could not lead to crash or bug, it could just be improve and more efficient.
- `// TODO` : Means a task, a piece of logic or some treatments linked to a feature is missing and should be implemented soon.
- `// FIXME` : Means this part of code shoud be fixed as soon as possible, either because some other modules are still incompleted to fix it, or some improvements are possible
- `// WARNING` : Means the code could have an important impact on other app’s components or are badly developed and could lead to leaks, crashes, problems and so on. This kind of comments could also give some keys about a behaviour, logic choices, etc.

## ➡️ Unit Tests & UI Tests
BHWeatherApp uses iOS unit test to validate user interfaces in targets `BHWeatherAppUITests`.
please ensure that software keyboard is visible during test : 
- I/O > Keyboard > Connect Hardware Keyboard - UNCHECKED

## ➡️ Useful links

* [BHWeatherControl](https://github.com/GodriXx/BHWeatherControl.git)

## ➡️ Perspectives
* Improve UI design
* Internationalization (for now, only english is available)
* Add support for current location
